README.md, before:

# IP Filter Updater &amp; Generator (ipfilter)
Generates PeerGuardian (`.p2p`) blocklist from [I-Blocklist](https://www.iblocklist.com/) blocklists and [GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip) country blocks. Suitable to run as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) on always-on devices (e.g. NAS, Raspberry Pi).

## Donations
I'm striving to become a full-time developer of [Free and open-source software (FOSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software). Donations help me achieve that goal and are highly appreciated.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/fonic"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/buymeacoffee-button.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="35"></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="https://paypal.me/fonicmaxxim"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/paypal-button.png" alt="Donate via PayPal" height="35"></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="https://ko-fi.com/fonic"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/kofi-button.png" alt="Donate via Ko-fi" height="35"></a>

## Requirements
**Operating System:**<br/>
_Linux_, _FreeBSD_, _macOS_ or _Windows_.

**Tools & Utilities:**<br/>
_Bash (>=4.0)_, _awk_, _grep_, _gunzip_, _sed_, _unzip_, _curl_ -or- _wget_, _gzip_/_bzip2_/_xz_/_zip_<sup>[(1)](#footnote1)</sup>, _notify-send_/_osascript_/_powershell_<sup>[(2)](#footnote2)</sup>.

<sup><a name="footnote1">(1)</a></sup> optional, required for _gzip_/_bzip2_/_xz_/_zip_ compression of output file<br/>
<sup><a name="footnote2">(2)</a></sup> optional, required for desktop notifications on _Linux_+_FreeBSD_/_macOS_/_Windows_<br/>

macOS users might want to use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) to install missing dependencies.

Windows users need to setup a suitable runtime environment. [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/), [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/), [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) and [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) should all work fine. [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) might be the best choice to get started - it is reasonably lightweight, easy to set up, meets all requirements out of the box and is also available as a portable version. Refer to [Windows Runtime Environments](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/blob/master/WINDOWS.md) for additional information.

## Download & Installation
Refer to the [releases](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/releases) section for downloads links. There is no installation required. Simply extract the downloaded archive to a folder of your choice. Optionally, _ipfilter_ may be set up as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) (Linux with systemd only).

## Configuration
Open `ipfilter.conf` in your favorite text editor and adjust the settings to your liking. Refer to embedded comments for details. Note that before changing any settings, it is recommended to run _ipfilter_ with *default settings* first to make sure it works as expected. Refer to [this section](#configuration-options--defaults) for a listing of all configuration options and current defaults.

## Subscriptions
Using the [I-Blocklist](https://www.iblocklist.com/) feature does not require a subscription, as most of the provided lists are free to download. There are a few lists that are only available to subscribers, though. Non-free lists are currently unsupported - please open an [Issue](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/issues) if you have a subscription and want to help adding support for these lists.

Using the [GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip) feature requires an account ID and a license key which can be obtained free of charge after [signing up](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup) (refer to [this blog post](https://blog.maxmind.com/2019/12/18/significant-changes-to-accessing-and-using-geolite2-databases/) for details).

## Usage
As settings are configured via `ipfilter.conf`, _ipfilter_ intentionally features only few command line options:
```
--==[ IP Filter Updater & Generator ]==--

Usage: ipfilter.sh [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -n, --notify       Send desktop notification to inform user
                     about success/failure (useful for cron)
  -k, --keep-temp    Do not remove temporary folder on exit
                     (useful for debugging)
  -h, --help         Display this help message
```

In most cases, it should be sufficient to run _ipfilter_ without supplying any options:
```
$ cd ipfilter-vX.Y
$ ./ipfilter.sh
```

Alternatively, set up _ipfilter_ to run as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) (Linux with systemd only) or use a scheduler like cron (recommended for long-term use).

When running _non-interactively_ (e.g. as a system service or via cron), you might want to supply option `-n/--notify` to send desktop notifications informing you about success/failure (recommended on desktop systems).

Note that *root privileges* are generally **not** required to run _ipfilter_. Just make sure the configured `INSTALL_DST` points to a location writeable by the user running _ipfilter_. The same applies to `LOG_FILE` if logging is enabled.

## Set up as system service

To set up _ipfilter_ as an isolated system service, run the following commands in a console (Linux with systemd only):

```
$ sudo bash
# useradd -d /var/lib/ipfilter -s /sbin/nologin -c "User for IP Filter Updater & Generator" ipfilter
# mkdir /var/lib/ipfilter
# chown ipfilter:ipfilter /var/lib/ipfilter
# chmod 700 /var/lib/ipfilter
# cd ipfilter-vX.Y
# cp ipfilter.sh ipfilter.conf CHANGELOG.md README.md /var/lib/ipfilter
# touch /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.log /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.stdout.log /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.stderr.log
# chown ipfilter:ipfilter /var/lib/ipfilter/*
# cp ipfilter.service ipfilter.timer /etc/systemd/system
# sed -i -e 's|%{USER}|ipfilter|g' -e 's|%{GROUP}|ipfilter|g' -e 's|%{HOME}|/var/lib/ipfilter|g' /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service
# systemctl daemon-reload
# systemctl enable ipfilter.timer
# systemctl start ipfilter.timer
# exit
```

**NOTE:**<br/>
This creates user/group `ipfilter` with home directory `/var/lib/ipfilter` and installs _ipfilter_ there. Make sure to point `INSTALL_DST` in `ipfilter.conf` to a location that is writeable by user `ipfilter` and readable by whatever application wants to access the generated `.p2p` file. See comments within `/etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service` and `/etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.timer` for customization options.

<br/>To fully clean up an existing system service setup, run the following commands:

```
$ sudo bash
# systemctl stop ipfilter.timer
# systemctl disable ipfilter.timer
# systemctl stop ipfilter.service
# rm /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.timer
# systemctl daemon-reload
# userdel -r ipfilter
# exit
```

## Output & Logging

Console output (verbose):

![Screenshot1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/ipfilter/master/SCREENSHOT1.png)

Log file output (verbose):

![Screenshot2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/ipfilter/master/SCREENSHOT2.png)

## Configuration Options & Defaults

Configuration options and current defaults:
```sh
# ipfilter.conf

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#                                                                              -
#  IP Filter Updater & Generator (ipfilter)                                    -
#                                                                              -
#  Created by Fonic (https://github.com/fonic)                                 -
#  Date: 04/15/19 - 04/26/24                                                   -
#                                                                              -
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Switch to toggle verbose output (for both console + log file)
# Format:  String
# Example: VERBOSE_OUTPUT="true" | VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"
# Default: VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"
VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"

# Path of file to log output to (folder + filename)
# NOTE:    ${SCRIPT_DIR}: directory where 'ipfilter.sh' is stored, ${SCRIPT_NAME}: name of file 'ipfilter.sh' without extension
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_FILE="/var/log/ipfilter.log"
# Default: LOG_FILE="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.log"
LOG_FILE="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.log"

# Mode to use for logging and log file handling
# NOTE:    Set to 'disabled' to disable logging entirely
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_MODE="disabled" | LOG_MODE="overwrite" | LOG_MODE="append"
# Default: LOG_MODE="append"
LOG_MODE="append"

# Switch to toggle colored output for log file
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_COLORS="true" | LOG_COLORS="false"
# Default: LOG_COLORS="false"
LOG_COLORS="false"

# Options to pass to curl when downloading files
# NOTE:    To debug download issues, temporarily remove option '--fail' and check contents of downloaded files for server messages
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "8" "--connect-timeout" "120" "--proxy" "<protocol>://<host>:<port>")
# Default: CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "2" "--connect-timeout" "60")
CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "2" "--connect-timeout" "60")

# Options to pass to wget when downloading files
# NOTE:    wget is used only if curl is not available; do not add option '--quiet' here as this will also suppress error messages
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=9" "--timeout=120" "--execute" "use_proxy=yes" "--execute" "http_proxy=<host>:<port>")
# Default: WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=3" "--timeout=60")
WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=3" "--timeout=60")

# List of blocklists to download from I-Blocklist (https://www.iblocklist.com)
# NOTE:    To identify valid ids, inspect hyperlink targets or column 'Update URL' on this web page: https://www.iblocklist.com/lists
#          e.g. 'level1' -> 'https://www.iblocklist.com/list?list=ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw' -> id is 'ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw' -> ["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw"
# Format:  Array of name-id-pairs (i.e. string-string-pairs)
# Example: IBL_LISTS=(["badpeers"]="cwworuawihqvocglcoss" ["adservers"]="zhogegszwduurnvsyhdf")
# Default: IBL_LISTS=(["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw" ["level2"]="gyisgnzbhppbvsphucsw" ["level3"]="uwnukjqktoggdknzrhgh")
IBL_LISTS=(["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw" ["level2"]="gyisgnzbhppbvsphucsw" ["level3"]="uwnukjqktoggdknzrhgh")

# Account ID to use to download GeoLite2 country blocks database (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    A valid account ID is required to use the GeoLite2 feature; to obtain your account ID, sign
#          in to your MaxMind account and navigate to: My Account -> Account -> Account Information
# Format:  String
# Example: GL2_ID="123456"
# Default: GL2_ID=""
GL2_ID=""

# License key to use to download GeoLite2 country blocks database (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    A valid license key is required to use the GeoLite2 feature, see URL below for details:
#          https://blog.maxmind.com/2019/12/18/significant-changes-to-accessing-and-using-geolite2-databases/
# Format:  String
# Example: GL2_LICENSE="1a2b3c4d5e6f7g8h"
# Default: GL2_LICENSE=""
GL2_LICENSE=""

# List of countries to block using GeoLite2 country blocks (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    For a list of valid country names, download ZIP archive from URL below and inspect file 'geolite2-country-locations-en.csv':
#          https://download.maxmind.com/app/geoip_download?edition_id=GeoLite2-Country-CSV&license_key=<your-gl2-license-key>&suffix=zip
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: GL2_COUNTRIES=("Tomorrowland" "Soldier Island" "Wonderland")
# Default: GL2_COUNTRIES=()
GL2_COUNTRIES=()

# IP protocol versions to process for GeoLite2 country blocks (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    Only few applications actually support and recognize IPv6 ranges in .p2p files
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4") | GL2_IPVERS=("IPv6") | GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4" "IPv6")
# Default: GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4")
GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4")

# Path to install final output file to (folder + filename)
# NOTE:    ${SCRIPT_DIR}: directory where 'ipfilter.sh' is stored, ${SCRIPT_NAME}: name of file 'ipfilter.sh' without extension
#          Correct file extension will be determined automatically, there is no need to modify this when changing 'COMP_TYPE'
# Format:  String
# Example: INSTALL_DST="/tmp/blocklist.p2p"
# Default: INSTALL_DST="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.p2p"
INSTALL_DST="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.p2p"

# Type of compression to apply to final output file (in-place)
# NOTE:    Correct file extension will be determined automatically, there is no need to modify 'INSTALL_DST' when changing this
# Format:  String
# Example: COMP_TYPE="none" | COMP_TYPE="gzip" | COMP_TYPE="bzip2" | COMP_TYPE="xz" | COMP_TYPE="zip"
# Default: COMP_TYPE="none"
COMP_TYPE="none"
```

##

_Last updated: 04/26/24_

Commit message:

Release ipfilter-v4.5
Changes:
- Added support for downloading blocklists from I-BlockList as registered
  user (by supplying username and PIN via configuration items IBL_USER and
  IBL_PIN). Fixes https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/issues/8
- Obfuscate I-BlockList username and PIN in console/log output (to prevent
  leaking sensitive information via logs and/or when posting script output
  on GitHub)

README.md, after:

# IP Filter Updater &amp; Generator (ipfilter)
Generates PeerGuardian (`.p2p`) blocklist from [I-BlockList](https://www.iblocklist.com/) blocklists and [GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip) country blocks. Suitable to run as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) on always-on devices (e.g. NAS, Raspberry Pi).

## Donations
I'm striving to become a full-time developer of [Free and open-source software (FOSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software). Donations help me achieve that goal and are highly appreciated.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/fonic"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/buymeacoffee-button.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="35"></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="https://paypal.me/fonicmaxxim"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/paypal-button.png" alt="Donate via PayPal" height="35"></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="https://ko-fi.com/fonic"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/donate-buttons/main/kofi-button.png" alt="Donate via Ko-fi" height="35"></a>

## Requirements
**Operating System:**<br/>
_Linux_, _FreeBSD_, _macOS_ or _Windows_.

**Tools & Utilities:**<br/>
_Bash (>=4.0)_, _awk_, _grep_, _gunzip_, _sed_, _unzip_, _curl_ -or- _wget_, _gzip_/_bzip2_/_xz_/_zip_<sup>[(1)](#footnote1)</sup>, _notify-send_/_osascript_/_powershell_<sup>[(2)](#footnote2)</sup>.

<sup><a name="footnote1">(1)</a></sup> optional, required for _gzip_/_bzip2_/_xz_/_zip_ compression of output file<br/>
<sup><a name="footnote2">(2)</a></sup> optional, required for desktop notifications on _Linux_+_FreeBSD_/_macOS_/_Windows_<br/>

macOS users might want to use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) to install missing dependencies.

Windows users need to setup a suitable runtime environment. [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/), [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/), [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) and [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) should all work fine. [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) might be the best choice to get started - it is reasonably lightweight, easy to set up, meets all requirements out of the box and is also available as a portable version. Refer to [Windows Runtime Environments](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/blob/master/WINDOWS.md) for additional information.

## Download & Installation
Refer to the [releases](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/releases) section for downloads links. There is no installation required. Simply extract the downloaded archive to a folder of your choice. Optionally, _ipfilter_ may be set up as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) (Linux with systemd only).

## Configuration
Open `ipfilter.conf` in your favorite text editor and adjust the settings to your liking. Refer to embedded comments for details. Note that before changing any settings, it is recommended to run _ipfilter_ with *default settings* first to make sure it works as expected. Refer to [this section](#configuration-options--defaults) for a listing of all configuration options and current defaults.

## Subscriptions
Using the [I-BlockList](https://www.iblocklist.com/) feature requires a username and a PIN which can be obtained free of charge after [signing up](https://www.iblocklist.com/register). Note that while most lists are free to download, there are also a few lists that are only available to subscribers. Those subscription-only lists are currently unsupported - please open an [Issue](https://github.com/fonic/ipfilter/issues) if you have a subscription and want to help with adding support.

Using the [GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip) feature requires an account ID and a license key which can be obtained free of charge after [signing up](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup) (refer to [this blog post](https://blog.maxmind.com/2019/12/18/significant-changes-to-accessing-and-using-geolite2-databases/) for details).

## Usage
As settings are configured via `ipfilter.conf`, _ipfilter_ intentionally features only few command line options:
```
--==[ IP Filter Updater & Generator ]==--

Usage: ipfilter.sh [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -n, --notify       Send desktop notification to inform user
                     about success/failure (useful for cron)
  -k, --keep-temp    Do not remove temporary folder on exit
                     (useful for debugging)
  -h, --help         Display this help message
```

In most cases, it should be sufficient to run _ipfilter_ without supplying any options:
```
$ cd ipfilter-vX.Y
$ ./ipfilter.sh
```

Alternatively, set up _ipfilter_ to run as a [system service](#set-up-as-system-service) (Linux with systemd only) or use a scheduler like cron (recommended for long-term use).

When running _non-interactively_ (e.g. as a system service or via cron), you might want to supply option `-n/--notify` to send desktop notifications informing you about success/failure (recommended on desktop systems).

Note that *root privileges* are generally **not** required to run _ipfilter_. Just make sure the configured `INSTALL_DST` points to a location writeable by the user running _ipfilter_. The same applies to `LOG_FILE` if logging is enabled.

## Set up as system service

To set up _ipfilter_ as an isolated system service, run the following commands in a console (Linux with systemd only):

```
$ sudo bash
# useradd -d /var/lib/ipfilter -s /sbin/nologin -c "User for IP Filter Updater & Generator" ipfilter
# mkdir /var/lib/ipfilter
# chown ipfilter:ipfilter /var/lib/ipfilter
# chmod 700 /var/lib/ipfilter
# cd ipfilter-vX.Y
# cp ipfilter.sh ipfilter.conf CHANGELOG.md README.md /var/lib/ipfilter
# touch /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.log /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.stdout.log /var/lib/ipfilter/ipfilter.stderr.log
# chown ipfilter:ipfilter /var/lib/ipfilter/*
# cp ipfilter.service ipfilter.timer /etc/systemd/system
# sed -i -e 's|%{USER}|ipfilter|g' -e 's|%{GROUP}|ipfilter|g' -e 's|%{HOME}|/var/lib/ipfilter|g' /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service
# systemctl daemon-reload
# systemctl enable ipfilter.timer
# systemctl start ipfilter.timer
# exit
```

**NOTE:**<br/>
This creates user/group `ipfilter` with home directory `/var/lib/ipfilter` and installs _ipfilter_ there. Make sure to point `INSTALL_DST` in `ipfilter.conf` to a location that is writeable by user `ipfilter` and readable by whatever application wants to access the generated `.p2p` file. See comments within `/etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service` and `/etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.timer` for customization options.

<br/>To fully clean up an existing system service setup, run the following commands:

```
$ sudo bash
# systemctl stop ipfilter.timer
# systemctl disable ipfilter.timer
# systemctl stop ipfilter.service
# rm /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.service /etc/systemd/system/ipfilter.timer
# systemctl daemon-reload
# userdel -r ipfilter
# exit
```

## Output & Logging

Console output (verbose):

![Screenshot1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/ipfilter/master/SCREENSHOT1.png)

Log file output (verbose):

![Screenshot2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fonic/ipfilter/master/SCREENSHOT2.png)

## Configuration Options & Defaults

Configuration options and current defaults:
```sh
# ipfilter.conf

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#                                                                              -
#  IP Filter Updater & Generator (ipfilter)                                    -
#                                                                              -
#  Created by Fonic (https://github.com/fonic)                                 -
#  Date: 04/15/19 - 08/18/24                                                   -
#                                                                              -
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Switch to toggle verbose output (for both console + log file)
# Format:  String
# Example: VERBOSE_OUTPUT="true" | VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"
# Default: VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"
VERBOSE_OUTPUT="false"

# Path of file to log output to (folder + filename)
# NOTE:    ${SCRIPT_DIR}: directory where 'ipfilter.sh' is stored, ${SCRIPT_NAME}: name of file 'ipfilter.sh' without extension
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_FILE="/var/log/ipfilter.log"
# Default: LOG_FILE="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.log"
LOG_FILE="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.log"

# Mode to use for logging and log file handling
# NOTE:    Set to 'disabled' to disable logging entirely
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_MODE="disabled" | LOG_MODE="overwrite" | LOG_MODE="append"
# Default: LOG_MODE="append"
LOG_MODE="append"

# Switch to toggle colored output for log file
# Format:  String
# Example: LOG_COLORS="true" | LOG_COLORS="false"
# Default: LOG_COLORS="false"
LOG_COLORS="false"

# Options to pass to curl when downloading files
# NOTE:    To debug download issues, temporarily remove option '--fail' and check contents of downloaded files for server messages
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "8" "--connect-timeout" "120" "--proxy" "<protocol>://<host>:<port>")
# Default: CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "2" "--connect-timeout" "60")
CURL_OPTS=("--fail" "--location" "--silent" "--show-error" "--retry" "2" "--connect-timeout" "60")

# Options to pass to wget when downloading files
# NOTE:    wget is used only if curl is not available; do not add option '--quiet' here as this will also suppress error messages
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=9" "--timeout=120" "--execute" "use_proxy=yes" "--execute" "http_proxy=<host>:<port>")
# Default: WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=3" "--timeout=60")
WGET_OPTS=("--no-verbose" "--tries=3" "--timeout=60")

# Username to use to download blocklists from I-BlockList (https://www.iblocklist.com)
# NOTE:    A valid username is required to use the I-BlockList feature; this is the same username
#          that you use to sign in to your I-BlockList account (https://www.iblocklist.com/login)
# Format:  String
# Example: IBL_USER="user"
# Default: IBL_USER=""
IBL_USER=""

# PIN to use to download blocklists from I-BlockList (https://www.iblocklist.com)
# NOTE:    A valid PIN is required to use the I-BlockList feature; to obtain your PIN, sign in to
#          your I-BlockList account and click on the 'Member' button (or navigate manually to URL
#          https://www.iblocklist.com/member)
# Format:  String
# Example: IBL_PIN="123456"
# Default: IBL_PIN=""
IBL_PIN=""

# List of blocklists to download from I-BlockList (https://www.iblocklist.com)
# NOTE:    To identify valid ids, inspect hyperlink targets or column 'Update URL' on this web page: https://www.iblocklist.com/lists
#          e.g. 'level1' -> 'https://www.iblocklist.com/list?list=ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw' -> id is 'ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw' -> ["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw"
# Format:  Array of name-id-pairs (i.e. string-string-pairs)
# Example: IBL_LISTS=(["badpeers"]="cwworuawihqvocglcoss" ["adservers"]="zhogegszwduurnvsyhdf")
# Default: IBL_LISTS=(["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw" ["level2"]="gyisgnzbhppbvsphucsw" ["level3"]="uwnukjqktoggdknzrhgh")
IBL_LISTS=(["level1"]="ydxerpxkpcfqjaybcssw" ["level2"]="gyisgnzbhppbvsphucsw" ["level3"]="uwnukjqktoggdknzrhgh")

# Account ID to use to download GeoLite2 country blocks database (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    A valid account ID is required to use the GeoLite2 feature; to obtain your account ID, sign
#          in to your MaxMind account and navigate to: My Account -> Account -> Account Information
# Format:  String
# Example: GL2_ID="123456"
# Default: GL2_ID=""
GL2_ID=""

# License key to use to download GeoLite2 country blocks database (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    A valid license key is required to use the GeoLite2 feature, see URL below for details:
#          https://blog.maxmind.com/2019/12/18/significant-changes-to-accessing-and-using-geolite2-databases/
# Format:  String
# Example: GL2_LICENSE="1a2b3c4d5e6f7g8h"
# Default: GL2_LICENSE=""
GL2_LICENSE=""

# List of countries to block using GeoLite2 country blocks (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    For a list of valid country names, download ZIP archive from URL below and inspect file 'geolite2-country-locations-en.csv':
#          https://download.maxmind.com/app/geoip_download?edition_id=GeoLite2-Country-CSV&license_key=<your-gl2-license-key>&suffix=zip
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: GL2_COUNTRIES=("Tomorrowland" "Soldier Island" "Wonderland")
# Default: GL2_COUNTRIES=()
GL2_COUNTRIES=()

# IP protocol versions to process for GeoLite2 country blocks (https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip)
# NOTE:    Only few applications actually support and recognize IPv6 ranges in .p2p files
# Format:  Array of strings
# Example: GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4") | GL2_IPVERS=("IPv6") | GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4" "IPv6")
# Default: GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4")
GL2_IPVERS=("IPv4")

# Path to install final output file to (folder + filename)
# NOTE:    ${SCRIPT_DIR}: directory where 'ipfilter.sh' is stored, ${SCRIPT_NAME}: name of file 'ipfilter.sh' without extension
#          Correct file extension will be determined automatically, there is no need to modify this when changing 'COMP_TYPE'
# Format:  String
# Example: INSTALL_DST="/tmp/blocklist.p2p"
# Default: INSTALL_DST="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.p2p"
INSTALL_DST="${SCRIPT_DIR}/${SCRIPT_NAME}.p2p"

# Type of compression to apply to final output file (in-place)
# NOTE:    Correct file extension will be determined automatically, there is no need to modify 'INSTALL_DST' when changing this
# Format:  String
# Example: COMP_TYPE="none" | COMP_TYPE="gzip" | COMP_TYPE="bzip2" | COMP_TYPE="xz" | COMP_TYPE="zip"
# Default: COMP_TYPE="none"
COMP_TYPE="none"
```

##

_Last updated: 08/18/24_
